python is a strongly typed(Every object in python has a type defiantion), dynamically typed(no type defiantion is required before running python code) and an interpreted language(code compilation and execution is done at the same time i.e runtime compilation and execution).

Resources: 1. https://learnpythonthehardway.org/python3/
            2. https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python3/

Python Installation on linux system: 
    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:jonathonf/python-3.6
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install python3.6

pip installation command:
    sudo apt-get install python3-pip 

python shell also known as R-E-P-L(Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop).

Data Types: 
    Scalar Data Types(Holds a single value at a time) - int, float, bool, none
    Collection Data types(Holds multiple values) - string, list, dictionary,byte

python module is a single executable python file, ending with .py extention, containing code to do a particular task.
python package is made up of one or more modules that are joined together to perfom a function.

isalpha() - Returns true if the strings consists of letters only and not blank
isalnum() - Returns true if the strings consist of numbers and letters and not blank
isdecimal() - Returns true if the strings contain numeric value only
isspace() - Returns true if the string consist of spaces, tabs or new line
istitle() - Returns true if the string consist of capital letters on each word

ValueError = error resulting from an operation of unexpected input
TypeError =error resulting from Operation on unrelated types
IndentationError = error resulting from Incorect IndentationError
NameError = error resulting from Undefined variable name

OOPs
--------------------------------------------------------------------
A class is a blueprint of creating an object.
An object is an instance of a class.

Instance variables are variables that are unique to each new instance of the class
PEP - Python Enhancement Proposal

self.assertEqual() - It is a testcase method that checks on expected result.It takes two arguments, the first one is the expected result while the second one is the result that it actually gets.

Two Types of files:
1.Text files - Files that are organized into a sequence of lines that includes a sequence of characters
2.Binary Files - Files that are not text and have special encodings

Files modes includes:
r - This means the file is in Read Mode only.
w- The file is in Write Mode only.
a -The file is in append mode where we can only add items to the bottom of the file.
r+ The file is in both read and write mode

